JSSCLI(1)									    User Commands									   JSSCLI(1)

NAME
       jsscli - command-line interface for the JSS / Frappe REST API

SYNOPSIS
       jsscli [-q|-v...]  [--output format] [--profile name] COMMAND [options...]

DESCRIPTION
       jsscli is a robust command-line tool for interacting with Frappe/JSS sites.  It manages authentication, multiple accounts, local configuration, and provides full CRUD access
       to DocTypes, files, and reports.	 All sensitive credentials are stored in the system keyring, and session data is encrypted at rest.

       The tool is designed for both interactive use and scripting, with multiple output formats including colored JSON, plain JSON, Markdown-style tables, and raw text.

OPTIONS
   Global options
       These options can be used with any command and are placed before the subcommand.

       -q, --quiet
	      Suppress non-error output (success messages, hints). Error messages are still printed.

       -v, --verbose
	      Increase verbosity. Can be repeated multiple times (e.g., -vv).  Maps to log-level info for jsscli and debug for librjss.

       --output format
	      Set output format. Supported values:

	      pretty (default)
		     Colored, indented JSON when output is a terminal; plain pretty-printed JSON otherwise.

	      json   Compact JSON without extra whitespace.

	      table  Data  arrays  (e.g., the "data" field of a list response) are displayed as ASCII tables with Markdown-style alignment. Other objects are shown as key-value ta‐
		     bles.

	      raw    For string values, prints the string directly; otherwise falls back to compact JSON.

       --profile name
	      Use the specified account profile instead of the active account.	Overrides the JSS_PROFILE environment variable.

COMMANDS
   auth
       Manage authentication and sessions.

       jsscli auth login
	      Authenticate to the active account using stored credentials or an existing session. On success, a session record is saved locally and used for subsequent commands.

       jsscli auth logout
	      Terminate the server-side session (if possible) and remove the local session record.

       jsscli auth status
	      Show whether a valid session exists for the active account, and which user is logged in.

       jsscli auth whoami
	      Print identity information (full name, sitename, roles) of the currently authenticated user.

   account
       Manage named account profiles.

       jsscli account add name [options]
	      Add a new account. Secrets (password, API secret) are stored in the system keyring, not in configuration files.

	      --url URL
		     Base URL of the Frappe site (required). Example: https://erp.example.com.

	      --mode session|token
		     Authentication mode (default: session).

	      --email email
		     Email address used for session login. Required for session mode.  Can also be set via JSS_EMAIL environment variable.

	      --password password
		     Password for session login. If not provided, you will be prompted interactively.

	      --api-key key
		     API key for token-based authentication. Required for token mode.

	      --api-secret secret
		     API secret for token-based authentication. Required for token mode.

	      --sitename string
		     Expected site name; if provided, the login will fail if the server reports a different sitename.

	      --activate
		     Immediately set this account as the active account after creation.

       jsscli account list
	      List all configured accounts. The active account is marked with an asterisk (*). Output respects the global --output format.

       jsscli account use name
	      Switch the active account to name.

       jsscli account remove name
	      Remove an account and its associated secrets from the keyring. If the removed account was active, the active account is unset.

       jsscli account show [name]
	      Display detailed information about an account. Secrets are masked.  If name is omitted, the active account is shown.

   config
       Manage global CLI settings (stored in ~/.config/jsscli/config.toml).

       jsscli config set key value
	      Set a configuration key. The special key active_account changes the active account; any other key is stored as a generic default.

       jsscli config get key
	      Print the value of a configuration key, or (not set) if absent.

       jsscli config list
	      List all current settings as a table.

       jsscli config init
	      Create the configuration directory and default files if they do not exist.

       jsscli config path
	      Print the filesystem path to the configuration file.

   doctype
       Perform CRUD operations on Frappe DocTypes.

       jsscli doctype get doctype name
	      Retrieve a single document by its name (ID).

       jsscli doctype list doctype [options]
	      List documents of a given DocType.

	      --fields f1,f2,...
		     Comma-separated list of fields to return (e.g., name,status).

	      --filter field,operator,value
		     Add a filter; can be repeated. Operators: =, !=, like, >, <, etc. Example: --filter status,=,Active.

	      --limit n
		     Maximum number of records (default: 20).

	      --start n
		     Offset for pagination (default: 0).

	      --order-by field
		     Field to sort by. Append  desc for descending order (e.g., creation desc).

       jsscli doctype create doctype [file]
	      Create a new document. The document data is read from file (a path to a JSON file). If file is - or omitted, data is read from standard input.

       jsscli doctype update doctype name [file]
	      Update an existing document. Data source works like create.

       jsscli doctype delete doctype name
	      Delete a document. Prompts for confirmation unless -y is given.

	      -y, --yes
		     Skip confirmation prompt.

   file
       Upload and download files.

       jsscli file upload file doctype docname fieldname
	      Upload a local file and attach it to the specified document field.  Maximum file size is 50 MB.

       jsscli file download url [options]
	      Download a file from the given URL (relative to the site's base URL).

	      -o, --output path
		     Save file to path. If not provided, the base name of the URL is used.

	      -y, --yes
		     Overwrite existing file without prompting.

   info
       Display detailed build and version information.

       jsscli info
	      Prints a JSON object containing:

	      name, version, description
		     From Cargo package metadata.

	      authors, author_name, author_email
		     First author parsed from Cargo.toml.

	      homepage, documentation, license, repository
		     Project URLs.

	      build  Object with hash (timestamp), profile (debug/release), target (architecture-OS-environment), local_time, utc_time, hostname.

	      git    Object with short_hash, full_hash, branch, status (clean/dirty), commit_count, remote_url.

	      compiler
		     rustc and cargo version strings.

	      All values are embedded at compile time; no network calls are made.

   changelog
       Show the Git commit history embedded at build time.

       jsscli changelog [-n count|--count count]
	      Display the most recent commits (up to 50 by default) in JSON format.  Each commit includes hash, author, date, and message. The output respects the  global  --output
	      option.

	      -n, --count count
		     Show only the last count commits (default: 50).

	      Note: the changelog data is captured when jsscli is compiled. If the binary is built outside a Git repository, an empty list is shown.

ENVIRONMENT
       JSS_PROFILE
	      Name of the account profile to use, overridden by --profile.

       JSS_EMAIL
	      Default email when adding an account (used by account add).

       JSS_ACTIVE_ACCOUNT
	      Overrides the active account setting from config.toml.

       In addition, all standard Rust/Cargo environment variables (such as HTTPS_PROXY) are respected by the underlying HTTP client.

FILES
       ~/.config/jsscli/config.toml
	      Global settings: active account, arbitrary key-value defaults.

       ~/.config/jsscli/accounts.toml
	      Account definitions (secrets are never written here).

       ~/.cache/jsscli/session.enc
	      Encrypted session record (AES-256-GCM, key derived from a master password stored in the system keyring).

       ~/.cache/jsscli/.session.salt
	      Salt for session encryption key derivation.

       Sensitive secrets (passwords, API secrets, the master encryption key) are stored in the system keyring (e.g., GNOME Keyring, macOS Keychain, Windows Credential Manager).

EXIT STATUS
       0      Success.

       1      Generic runtime error.

       2      Invalid usage or input.

       3      Not authenticated.

       4      Network error.

       5      API error (non-2xx response from server).

EXAMPLES
       Add an account and log in:
	      jsscli account add myhost --url https://erp.example.com --email admin@example.com --activate
	      jsscli auth login

       List the first 5 Sales Orders with specific fields, sorted by creation date:
	      jsscli doctype list "Sales Order" --fields name,customer,status --order-by "creation desc" --limit 5

       Create a new ToDo from a JSON file:
	      jsscli doctype create ToDo todo.json

       Upload a PDF and attach it to a document:
	      jsscli file upload report.pdf "Sales Order" SO-00001 company_logo

       Show build information:
	      jsscli info

       Show the last 10 commits embedded in the binary:
	      jsscli changelog -n 10

       Use a specific account profile:
	      jsscli --profile production doctype list "Item" --limit 10

SEE ALSO
       librjss(3), frappe(7)

       Frappe REST API documentation: https://frappeframework.com/docs

BUGS
       Report issues at https://github.com/mroczect/jsscli/issues.

jsscli 0.1.0									     2026-07-18										   JSSCLI(1)
